

## Module 3: Configuring client connectivity to Microsoft Microsoft 365

Lab: Configuring client connectivity to Microsoft 365

### Exercise 1: Configuring DNS records for Microsoft 365 clients

## Task 1: Review the recommended DNS records in the Microsoft 365 admin center

1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge.

2. Connect to **http://portal.office.com**, and then sign in as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com.com**, replacing yyxxxxx with your unique M365x number, and with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the Microsoft 365 portal, Select **Admin.**

4. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the menu to the left, go to **Settings**, Select **Domains**, and then review the domain names assigned to the **M365x** tenant.

5. In the Domains window, Select **M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

6. On the **DNS errors** page, review the records that need to be configured for your domain. 

7. Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. 

## Task 2: Configure the DNS records for external clients

**Configure DNS settings for Exchange Online**

1. On LON-DC1, open Server Manager.

2. In Server Manager, Select the **Tools** menu, and then Select **DNS**.

3. In DNS Manager, expand **LON-DC1**, and then expand **Forward Lookup Zones**.

4. Select, and then right-Select **M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then Select **New Alias (CNAME)**.

5. In the **Alias** **name** text box, type **autodiscover** as the alias name.

6. In the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** text box, type **autodiscover.outlook.com**.

7. Select **OK**.

8. Right-Select M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com, and then Select **New Mail Exchanger (MX)**.

9. In the Mail Exchanger (MX) dialog box, in the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of mail server** text box, type **M365xyyxxxxx-hostdomain-com.mail.protection.outlook.com**.

10. Select **OK**.

**Configure DNS settings for Teams/Skype for Business Online**

1. On LON-DC1, right-Select the **M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, and then select **Other New Records**.

2. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll down the list, Select **Service Location**, and then Select **Create Record**.

3. On the **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information, and then Select **OK**:

	- Service: **_sip**

	- Protocol: **_tls**

	- Priority: **100**

	- Weight: **1**

	- Port number: **443**

	- Host offering this service: **sipdir.online.lync.com**

	- Time to live: **1 hour (default)**

4. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, Select **Create Record**. 

5. On the **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information, and then Select **OK**:

	- Service: **_sipfederationtls**

	- Protocol: **_tcp**

	- Priority: **100**

	- Weight: **1**

	- Port number: **5061**

	- Host offering this service: **sipfed.online.lync.com**

	- Time to live: **1 hour (default)**

6. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, scroll back up the list, Select **Alias (CNAME)**, and then Select **Create Record**.

7. On the **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then Select **OK**:

	- Alias name: **sip**

	- Fully qualified domain name: **sip.M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**  

	- Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host: **sipdir.online.lync.com**

	- Time to live: **1 hour (default)**

8. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, Select **Create Record**. 

9. On the **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then Select **OK**:

	- Alias name: **lyncdiscover**

	- Fully qualified domain name: **lyncdiscover.M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** 

	- Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host: **webdir.online.lync.com**

	- Time to live: **1 hour (default)**

10. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, Select **Done**.

11. Switch back to LON-CL1, and then in the Microsoft 365 admin console, Select **Check DNS**.

12. You should now see that most records are not listed anymore (you should see msoid, enterpriseregistration, enterpriseenrollment and SPF records). Close the page.

13. In the top bar, Select **Microsoft 365** apps icon. 

14. Select **Mail**.

15. On the Outlook page, select your time zone and Select **Save**. 

16. In the upper right corner, Select your user icon and select **Sign in to IM**.

17. On LON-CL2, verify that you are signed in as Holly Dickson 

18. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to **https://portal.office.com**.

19. Sign in as **Holly@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

20. In the Microsoft 365 portal, Select **Mail**.

21. On the Outlook page, select your time zone, and then Select **Save**. 

22. In the upper right corner, Select your user icon and select **Sign in to IM**.

23. In the upper-left corner, Select the **New** button.

24. In the **To** text box, type **Mod Administrator**.

25. When the name resolves, note her instant message (IM) status. It might take a couple of minutes for her status to update.

26. Select **Mod Administrator** in the **To** text box.

27. In the pop-up dialog box, Select the **IM** icon on the right (icon below email address, with same UPN as email).

28. In the IM pop-up window, type a message, and then press Enter.

29. On LON-CL1, Select the **IM** dialog box.

30. Reply to the IM. Note that you now can send IMs between the two users.

31. Close both the IM windows, and then close the Microsoft Edge windows on both virtual machines.

 


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have:


- Reviewed the recommended DNS records in the Microsoft 365 admin center.

- Configured the DNS records for external clients.

- Configured the DNS records for internal clients.


  
‎ 

### Exercise 2: Running the Microsoft 365 connectivity analyzer tools

## Task 1: Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool

1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In the address bar, type **https://testconnectivity.microsoft.com/**.

3. On the **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** page, Select the **Office 365** tab.

4. On the Office 365 tab, Select **help identify My issue with Exchange DNS**.

5. Under **Domain Name**, type **M365xxyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

6. Under **Verification**, type the characters that you can see in the verification field, and then Select **Verify**. 

 **Note:** The verification code is not case-sensitive.

7. Select **Perform Test**.

 **Note:** If you receive a message about having performed too many tests in 60 seconds, wait for a minute and then repeat the test.

8. When you see **Connectivity Test Successful**, under **Test Details**, expand **Test Steps**, and then review the checks that were made against the Exchange Online domain.

9. Select **Start Over**.

10. On the **Microsoft 365** tab, Select **Microsoft 365 Lync Domain Name Server (DNS) Connectivity Test**, and then Select **Next**.

11. In the **Sign-in address** text box, type **admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then Select **Perform Test**.

 **Note:** If you receive a message about having performed too many tests in 60 seconds, wait for a minute and then repeat the test.

12. When you see **Connectivity Test Successful**, under **Test Details**, expand **Test Steps**, and then review the checks that were made against the Skype for Business Online domain.

13. Select **Start Over**.

14. Under **Microsoft Office Outlook Connectivity Tests**, Select **Outlook Connectivity**, and then Select **Next**.

15. On the Outlook Connectivity page, in **Email Address** and **Microsoft Account**, type **admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

16. In the **Password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**.

17. Select **Use Autodiscover to detect server settings**.

18. Select **I understand that I must use the credentials of a working account from my Exchange domain to be able to test connectivity to it remotely. I also acknowledge that I am responsible for the management and security of this account**.

19. Select **Perform Test**.

20. When you see **Connectivity Test Successful with Warnings**, under **Test Details**, expand **Test Steps**, and then review the checks that were made against **Outlook Anywhere**. Note in particular the message that contains information about the **Autodiscover** steps that fail.

21. Under **Run Test Again** at the top-right corner of the window, note that you can copy this test to the clipboard, or save it as an XML or HTML file.

## Task 2: Run the Microsoft 365 Support and Recovery Assistant

1. In the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer window, on the Client tab, in the Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Microsoft 365 section(SARA Client), a new tab will open toe **Support and Recovery Assistant** download page. 

2. On the new web page that opens, Select **Download now** and then Select **Save**. 

3. Wait for the download to finish, and then Select **Run**.

4. In the Application Install – Security Warning window, Select Install.

5. In the Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Microsoft 365 window, Select **I agree**, then Select **Advanced diagnostics**, and then Select **Next**.

6. On the next page, Select **Exchange** **Online** and Select **Next**.

7. On the Select the diagnostic you’d like to run page, Select **Perform authentication checks** and Select **Next** and then select Yes and Select Next again.

8. On the next page, type **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, type Pa55w.rd as password, select **Keep me signed in** and then Select **Next**.

9. Wait until Microsoft 365 Support and Recovery assistant generates the results.

10. Review the details, and then close the window.

 


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have:


- Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool.

- Run the Microsoft 365 Client Performance Analyzer tool.


  
‎ 

### Exercise 3: Connecting Office 2016 clients

## Task 1: Verify that Outlook 2016 can connect to Microsoft 365

1. On LON-CL1, start Outlook 2016. 

2. On the Welcome to Outlook 2016 page, Select Next.

3. On the Add an Email Account page, Select Next. 

4. On the **Auto Account Setup** page, type the following information, and then Select **Next**:

	- Your Name: Mod Administrator

	- E-mail Address: Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com 

	- Password: **Provided PW**

	- Retype Password: **Provided PW**

5. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type **Pa55w.rd** as the password, select **Remember my credentials**, and then Select **OK**. 

6. Verify that you are connected to Exchange Online, and then Select **Finish**.

7. In the First things first dialog box, Select **Ask me later**, and then Select **Accept**. 

8. On LON-CL2, repeat steps 1 through 7 by using the following information:

	- Your Name: Holly Dickson

	- E-mail Address: Holly@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com 

	- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

	- Retype Password: **Pa55w.rd**. 

## Task 2: Verify that Teams can connect to Microsoft 365

1. On LON-CL1, start Teams by Selecting on **Start** button and typing **Teams**. In the Apps list Select **Teams**

2. Close the Welcome - Teams dialog box.

3. On the **Teams sign in** page, type [**Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**](mailto:Admin@m365xyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com) as the **Sign-in address**, and then Select **Sign in**.

4. On the **second Sign in** page, type **Provided PW** as the password, select **Save my password**, and Select **Sign In**. 

5. Select **Yes**. In the Help Make Skype for Business Better! dialog box, if it appears, Select **No**. Verify that you are connected to Skype for Business Online.

6. On LON-CL2, repeat steps 1 through 5 by using the following information:

	- Sign-in address: Holly@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com 

	- Password: **Pa55w.rd**

7. Keep the virtual machines running for the next module.
  
‎ 



**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified:


- That Outlook 2016 can connect to Microsoft 365.

- That Teams can connect to Microsoft 365.

- OneDrive for Business connectivity to Microsoft 365.


 
