

Module 1: Planning and provisioning Microsoft 365

Lab: Provisioning Microsoft 365

This lab will guide you through the base requirement in how to setup a Microsoft 365 tenant. As a note there will be Unique tenant id's, please replace ZZZZZZ with your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider.



### Exercise 1: Configuring an Microsoft 365 tenant

## Task 1: Confirming that Tenant provisioning availability.
	In this task you will be configuring and provision your tenant so that the Microsoft

1. On **LON-CL1**, log in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the Password **Pa55w.rd**, from LON-CL1 locate the **Task bar**,then select **Microsoft Edge**.
2. In the Edge browser address bar, type **https://Portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
3. The M365 Sign in will display Enter in the **M365 Administrator** Username which has been provided.(admin@zzzz.onmicrosoft.com)
4. Select **Next**.
5. From the M365 Sign in will display Enter Password in the **M365 Credentials** page. Enter the provided password.
6. Select **Signin.**
7. A new window will ask if it reduces the number of times you are asked to sign in. Select **Yes**,
8. if any window should pop up review the information and select **Got it**.
9. From the Office 365 home page Select the **Admin Icon.**
10. A new Edge window tab will open, this will be the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**, Select the 3 dash elipsis in the left hand corner of the window. Select the **Users** Dropdown, then select *Active users**.
11. There should be pre-generated users there please confirm that they have been licensed.To do this review the **Licenses** column, the licens displayed should read **Enterprise Mobility+Security E5,Windows 10 Enterprise E5**.
12. From the **Microsoft 365 admin center**on the left hand side **Admin tray** select **Show all**.
13. Scroll until you see **Exchange.**
14. Select **Exchange**
15. A new window will appear displaying the **Exchange admin center**,from the **Exchange admin center** select **recipients** header from the **dashboard**.
16. The same **users** that were displayed in the **active users** tray should be in the **mailboxes** tray. 
17. This means that the tenant had provisioned properly and does not have any issues at this time.

## Task 2: Verify Microsoft 365 service health

1. From the Edge Browser that is open from Task 1, Select the Microsoft 365 admin center. On the Microsoft admin center select **Health** on the left-hand menu, then Select **Service health** to display the Service health dashboard.
2. In the middle pane, view the status of the Microsoft 365 services. If any services are showing a status other than **healthy**, Select the service. 
3. Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.

 **Note:** During Microsoft testing, on rare occasions Microsoft 365 did not create the trial tenant properly; as a result, the tenant did not have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, you should create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Microsoft 365 tenant account for A. Datum Corporation.

### Exercise 2: Configuring a custom domain

This exercise will prepare and configure your Microsoft 365 tenant for a custom Domain.

## Task 1: Add the custom domain

Not every company has just one domain; in fact, many companies have more than one domain. In this task, you will gain experience adding a domain; in this case, you will add a second domain for Adatum Corporation. When you add a domain to Office 365, it's called an accepted, or custom domain. Custom domains allow companies to have their own branding on emails and accounts so that customers can verify who is emailing them (for example, @contoso.com). For the purposes of our hosted lab environment, instead of creating a custom domain titled @adatum.com, you will use the hosted lab domain name of ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain, where XXYYZZ is the UPN name associated with your on-premises lab network.

1. If you’re not logged into the LON-DC1 VM as **ADATUM\Administrator** and password **Pa55w.rd**, then please do so now.

2. You must now open **Windows PowerShell**. Select the magnifying glass (Search Windows) icon on the taskbar at the bottom of the screen and type **powershell** in the Search box that appears. 

3. In the menu that appears, right-click on **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as administrator** in the drop-down menu. 

4. At the command prompt, you should run the following command to create a new Zone in DNS (remember to change ZZZZZZ to the unique UPN name provided by your lab hosting provider):   <br/>

    ‎**dnscmd /zoneadd ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain /DsPrimary** 

5. Select the **Internet Explorer** icon on the taskbar then type **https://Portal.office.com**, and then press Enter. Sign in to Microsoft 365 by using the Microsoft 365 credentials. then select the Admin icon.
6. In the left-hand navigation pane,select show all, then under **Settings**, select **Domains**. 

7. Select +**Add domain** to start the domain setup wizard. 

8. In the **Add a domain** page, in the **Enter a domain you own** field, enter your domain name in the form of **ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain** (where ZZZZZZ is the unique UPN name provided by your lab hosting provider), and then select **Next**. 

9. In the **Verify domain** page, you must select a verification method to prove you own the domain. While the recommended option is **Verification email**, for the purposes of your lab environment you want to instead use a **TXT** record. Therefore, scroll down and select the **Add a TXT record instead** option and select **Next**. 

10. In the next **Verify domain** page, write down the what’s displayed to the right of the **TXT value**. This entry will be similar to **MS=msXXXXXXXX**. Record this value so that you have it available when you create an additional TXT record later in this task.   <br/>

    ‎**Important:** If you select **Verify** at this point, you will receive an error indicating the system could not find the record you added for this domain (you can do this if you want to see the error; there is no harm in it). Therefore, you must complete the next series of steps to add the TXT record to this domain in **DNS Manager**. Once you finish that, you will be instructed to return back to this page and select the **Verify** button so that you can complete the process of adding this domain in the Microsoft 365 admin center. 

11. Select the **Server Manager** icon that appears in your taskbar at the bottom of the page. Maximize the Server Manager window.

12. In **Server Manager Dashboard,** select **Tools** in the top right corner of the window. In the drop-down menu, select **DNS**. This will open **DNS Manager**.

13. In **DNS Manager**, in the **File Explorer** section in the left-hand column, expand **Forward Lookup Zones,** and then right-click on the DNS zone called **ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain** (where ZZZZZZ is the unique UPN name provided by your lab hosting provider). 

14. In the menu that appears, select **Other New Records**. 

15. In the **Resource Record Type** window, under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down and select **Text (TXT),** and then select the **Create Record** button at the bottom of the window.

16. In the **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank. 

17. In the **Text** field, type **MS=msXXXXXXXX**, replacing XXXXXXXX with the value that you recorded in Step 12. 

18. Select **OK** to create the record. 

19. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Done**. 

20. You are now ready to return to the Microsoft 365 admin center and resume adding the domain record. If you’ll recall, when you were adding the domain in the Microsoft 365 admin center, you indicated that you wanted to verify the domain using a TXT record. At that point you had to switch to DNS Manger and add the TXT record. Now that you’ve added the TXT record, you can go back to the Microsoft 365 admin center and proceed with the domain verification process.<br/>

	‎Select the **Internet Explorer** icon on the taskbar, and then in your browser select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab that displays the **Verify Domain** page. The **TXT name** should display your UPN name (ZZZZZZ) and the **TXT value** should display your MS=msXXXXXXXX value.

21. Scroll to the bottom of the window and select **Verify.**   <br/>

    ‎**Important:** If you had a typo or any other configuration mistakes, the domain will not be verified. If this occurs, the **Choose your online services** window in the next step will not appear. In this case, you should repeat this task and take your time when configuring the domain to make sure you don’t run into similar issues at this step in the process.

22. If your domain was successfully verified, the **Choose your online services** window will appear. In this window, **Exchange** is the only service selected. This is sufficient for Adatum, so scroll to the bottom of the window and select **Next**. 

23. In the **Update DNS settings** window, scroll down through the window to see the MX, CNAME, and TXT records for this domain. At the bottom of the window is a check box titled **Skip this step.** Select this checkbox, which changes the **Verify** button to a **Skip** button. You have already created the TXT record, and in the following steps you will create additional MX and A records in DNS Manager. Therefore, select the **Skip** button.

24. In the **Update DNS settings** window, select **Finish** to complete the new domain setup. 

25. On the taskbar at the bottom of the page, select the **DNS Manager** icon.

26. In **DNS Manager**, under **Forward Lookup Zones**, the **ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain** domain should be selected from when you earlier left off. If not, select this zone now. You should now see the **TXT** record that you just created. You must now create a Host record (A) and a Mail Exchanger (MX) record for this domain in the following steps.

27. Under **Forward Lookup Zones**, right-click the **ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain** domain and select **Other New Records**.

28. In the **Resource Record Type** window, under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down and select **Host (A or AAAA),** and then select the **Create Record** button at the bottom of the window.

29. In the **New Resource Record** box, you need to enter the Host’s IP address. At the start of this lab you opened the **Lab Network Info** window for the VM and wrote down the **IP Address** associated with the domain for this VM. Enter that **IP Address** value here (for example, 64.64.206.13) and then select **OK**.

30. In the **Resource Record Type** window, under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down and select **Mail Exchanger (MX),** and then select the **Create Record** button at the bottom of the window.

31. In the **New Resource Record** box, you need to enter the domain for this VM. Leave the **Host or child domain** field blank, but select **Browse** next to the **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) of mail server** field.

32. In the **Browse** window, your domain controller VM name should appear (**LON-DC1**). Select this record and then select **OK**. 

33. In the **Browse** window, select the **Forward Lookup zones** folder and then select **OK**.

34. In the **Browse** window, select your domain of **ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain** (where ZZZZZZ is the unique UPN name provided by your lab hosting provider) and then select **OK.**

35. In the **Browse** window, select the IP address of this domain and then select **OK.** 

36. In the **New Resource Record** window, the value of the FQDN is filled in. Select **OK** to create the record. 

37. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Done**. 

38. In **DNS Manager**, you should now see the Host and MX records that you just created for this domain.

39. Close DNS Manager. 

40. Remain logged into the LON-DC1 VM with the Microsoft 365 admin center tab left open for the next task.

**Note:** Instead of using DNS Manger to create the Host and MX records above, you could have created them in PowerShell instead. If you use PowerShell to create these records, you would need to run the following commands (remember to change ZZZZZZ to your unique UPN name and n.n.n.n to your unique IP address):

‎**dnscmd /recordadd ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain '@' A n.n.n.n**   
	
**dnscmd /recordadd ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain '@' MX 10 ZZZZZZ.Hostdomain**  

	**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have:

	- Added a custom domain.

	- Verified domain ownership.

### Exercise 3: Exploring the Microsoft 365 administrator interfaces

## Task 1: Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center

1. go to **LON-CL1**, select the Edge explorer and select the Microsoft 365 admin center tab, Select **Home**.
2. On the left navigation menu, scroll down to explore all available items. Expand items such as Users, Groups, Settings, etc.
3. On the left navigation menu, expand **Users**, and then Select **Active users**.
4. Review the users list.
5. On the left navigation menu, expand **Health**, and then Select **Message center**, and then in the right pane, review the messages.
6. Do not close the browser window.

## Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center

1. From the Microsoft 365 admin center tab locate the left navigation menu, expand **Admin centers**, and then Select **Exchange**.
2. A new tab will open displaying **Exchange admin center**.
3. In the Exchange admin center locate the left navigation menu, Select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

## Task 3: Explore the Teams admin center

1. From the Edge explorer window Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the Microsoft 365 Admin center, locate the left navigation menu, under **Admin centers**, Select **Teams **.
3. A new tab will open displaying **Teams admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, Select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

## Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center

1. From the Edge explorer window Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the Microsoft 365 Admin center, locate the left navigation menu, under **Admin centers**, Select **SharePoint**.
3. A new tab will open displaying **SharePoint admin center**.
4. From the Sharepoint admin center locate the left navigation menu, Select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

## Task 5: Explore the Microsoft 365 Security admin center 

1. From the Edge explorer window Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, Select **Admin centers**, and then Select **Security**.
3. A new tab will open displaying **Security and Compliance admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, Select each of the items, and then review the results displayed in the right pane.

## Task 6: Explore the Microsoft 365 Complaince admin center 

1. From the Edge explorer window Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, Select **Admin centers**, and then Select **Compliance**.
3. A new tab will open displaying **Compliance admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, Select each of the items, and then review the results displayed in the right pane.
5. Close Microsoft Edge.



## Task 7: To prepare for the next module

Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have provided a high-level overview of administrative portals of Microsoft 365.
