

## Module 10: Planning and configuring an Microsoft 365  collaboration solution

Lab: Planning and configuring an Microsoft 365  collaboration solution

### Exercise 1: Configuring Yammer Enterprise

Yammer Bring the rich social experiences of Yammer to Microsoft Teams, SharePoint, and other Microsoft 365 apps. Share, create, and edit files directly from Yammer conversations with Office for the web.
In this exercise we will showing the basic setup and mangement of Yammer.

## Task 1: Configure a Yammer organization setting

1. In **LON-CL1**, Select **Desktop**, open Microsoft Edge from the taskbar, and then browse to **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where yyxxxxx is your unique A. Datum number) If prompted by the Stay signed in page select **dont show this again**, and then select the **yes** option.

3. Select the **Microsoft 365 home** page, and then Select **Yammer**.

4. On the **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** page, Select the **X** at the top-right corner to close the page.

5. In Yammer, in the left pane beside search bar, Select the **Settings** icon.

6. Select **NETWORK ADMIN.**

7. In Yammer admin center, in the left navigation pane, Select **Usage Policy** under the **Network** column.

8. In the **Usage Policy** window, select the **Require users to accept policy during sign up and after any changes are made to the policy** check box.

9. In the **Usage Policy** window, select the **Display policy reminder in sidebar** check box.

10. In the **Custom Policy Title** text box, type **M365x Acceptable Use Policy**.

11. In the **Enter your policy in the textbox below** text box, copy and paste the following text:

**Welcome to Yammer! Our goal is to provide a collaborative environment to connect with colleagues and bridge various departments and geographic locations to share meaningful information**.

12. Select **Save**.

13. A new window will appear. In the **M365x Acceptable Use Policy** window, Select **I Accept**. 

14. If needed, in Yammer, in the left pane beside MOD Administrator, Select the **Settings** icon, and then Select **NETWORK ADMIN**.

15. In the left menu of the Yammer console, Select **Configuration** under the **Network** column.

16. From the configuration page In the **Email Settings** section, Select **Require all users in your network to confirm their messages posted via email before posting**.

17. In the **Enabled Features** page, remove the check mark from **3rd Party Applications**.

18. Select **Save**.

19. In the left-side menu of the Yammer console, Select **Data Retention** under **Content and Security**.

20. In the **Data Retention Policy** page, read the description of available options and Select **Archive** and then Select **Save**.

21. In the left menu of the Yammer console, Select **Monitor Keywords** under **Content and Security**.

22. In the **Monitor Keywords** page, type **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** in the **Email Address** field.

23. In the text box below, type the following words, one in each line: **gambling**, **erotic**, **warez**.

24. Select **Save**. you should see a **Success!!** banner once complete.

25. In the left menu of the Yammer console, Select **Success** under the **Network** column.

26. Select **Write a welcome message** in the middle pane near the bottom of the window. This will take you back to the Yammer home page. select in the text field.

27. In the **Add peaople** field Select **All Company**, and in the middle pane, in the **What are you working on?** text box, type: **Welcome to all Adatum users!**, and then Select **Post**.

## Task 2: Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Microsoft 365  identity

1. In Yammer, in the left pane, Select the **Settings** icon.

2. Select **NETWORK ADMIN**.

3. In Yammer admin center, in the left navigation pane in the **Content and Security** section, Select **Security Settings**.

4. Scroll down to **Office365 Identity Enforcement**. 

5. Select the **Enforce Microsoft 365  identity** check box.

6. In the pop-up window, Select **Okay.**

7. Select **Save**.

## Task 3: Configure the Yammer user experience

1. In Yammer, in the left pane, Select the **Settings** icon, and then Select **EDIT** **SETTINGS** under the **Mod Administrator** header.

2. In the toolbar, Select **Notifications**.

3. Confirm that the **Send me a digest of message activity (weekly)** checkbox is selected.

4. Select only the following options in the **Email me when...** section:

- **I receive a message in my inbox**

- **I log in from somewhere new**

- **I post a message via email (This will send a confirmation email)**

5. Select **Save**.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.

## Task 4: Using Yammer

1. On **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as **Holly@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

3. On the Microsoft 365  portal, Select **Yammer**.

4. At the **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH** prompt, type **Christie** in the first text box, and then Select **DONE** and close the window.

5. Select **I Accept** at the **M365x Acceptable Use Policy** prompt.

6. Find the post from MOD Administrator in the post list.

7. Select **Like**, and then Select **SHARE**.

8. In the **Share This Conversation** dialog box, select **Post in a Group**, type **All Company** in the drop-down box, and then in the text box, type **Welcome from me too**.

9. Select **Share**.

10. Select **All Company** and in the **What are you working on** text box, type “**free gambling here”**, and then Select **Post**.

11. Close Microsoft Edge.

12. Open Microsoft Edge and browse to **https://portal.office.com**.

13. Sign in as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

14. On the Microsoft 365  portal, Select **Mail**.

15. Verify that you received a message from Yammer with a report about a monitored keyword appearance in Beth’s post.

16. Close Microsoft Edge.

 


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled Yammer Enterprise for A. Datum Corporation.


  
‎ 

### Exercise 2: Configuring OneDrive for Business

## Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization

1. On **LON-CL3**, Select **Start**, Select **All apps**, and then Select **Word 2016**. 

2. When **Word 2016** opens a **first things first** window will open. select **Ask me later** and then select **Accept**.In the **Word 2016** window, in the top right corner, verify that Word is licensed to Alan Yoo.
 you will be prompted to sign in and then have to authenticate your sign in. use your phone to authenticate via text message.

3. If Word is licensed to another account, Select **Switch account**.

4. In the **Accounts** dialog box, Select **SIGN OUT**, and then Select **Sign out**. In the **Remove Account** notice, Select **Yes**. 

5. At the top right, Select **Sign in to get the most out of Office**.

6. On the **Sign in** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Alan@M365xYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com**, and then Select **Next**.

7. On the **Sign in** page, and then Select **Sign in**.

8. Verify that Word is now licensed to Alan. Close Word.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to **https://portal.office.com**.

10. Sign in as **Alan@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.
11. On the Microsoft 365  portal, Select **OneDrive**.

12. If the **Welcome to OneDrive for Business** page appears, Select **Next**.

13. In the **OneDrive** window, Select **New**, and then Select **Word document**. Note: you may have a notification requiring you to allow **Word online** to open. Select **Always Allow**.

14. In the **Word Online** window, type some text, and then close Word Online.

15. In the **OneDrive** window, Select **Sync**.

16. In the **Did you mean to switch apps?** dialog box, Select **Yes**.

17. In the **Sync your OneDrive files to this PC** dialog box, Select **Start sync**.

18. If prompted to sign in, type **Alan@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then Select **Next**. 

19. and then Select **Sign In**.

20. Select **File Explorer** on the task bar, and then Select **OneDrive - A. Datum**. Note: A how to window will open review the content and select **Next** when your finished. When you get to the option to get the mobile app select **later**.

21. Note that File Explorer displays the location where the synchronized files will be stored. Verify that the Word document has been synchronized to the local computer.

## Task 2: Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business

1. On **LON-CL3**, ensure that the **OneDrive for Business** folder is open in File Explorer.

2. On the ribbon in File Explorer, Select **Home**, Select **New folder**, and then create a new folder named **Private**.

3. On the ribbon, Select **Home,** Select **New folder**, and then create a second new folder named **Project A**.

4. Double-Select the **Private** folder. Right-Select in this folder, and on the context menu, Select **New**, and then Select **Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document **Holidays.docx**.

5. Double-Select **Holidays.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

6. See how the document icon in the taskbar changes from two blue arrows to a small green check mark icon after the synchronization process is complete. The document has been transferred to the cloud storage automatically.

7. In the File Explorer window, navigate to **OneDrive for Business** in the navigation address line to move one level up.

8. Double-Select the folder **Project A**. Right-Select in this folder, and on the context menu, Select **New**, and then Select **Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document **Project targets.docx**.

9. Double-Select **Project targets.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

10. Verify that the document synchronizes. 

11. To view the files online, switch to the Microsoft Edge window. Refresh the view.

12. In the **Files** list, you should see your two folders, **Private** and **Project A**.

13. Navigate to the **Private** folder. Select the synchronized document **Holidays.docx** to open it in Word Online.

14. Select **Edit document**, and then Select **Edit in Browser**. Add some text. The document is saved automatically when **Saved** is displayed in the title bar.

15. In the menu bar right beside Word Online, Select **Beth Burke** to return to OneDrive for Business.

16. The content of the **Private** folder changes, and you will see that you changed the document online. The **Modified** column shows that the document changed some seconds (or minutes) ago.

17. Switch back to File Explorer. Navigate to the **Private** folder, and then open **Holidays.docx**. You will see that the changes you made in Word Online are synchronized back automatically. 

## Task 3: Share files with other users

1. In File Explorer, right-Select the folder **Project A**, Select **View online**.

2. Microsoft Edge opens. Open the **Project A** folder, right-Select **Project Targets.docx**, and then Select **Share**.

3. SharePoint Online automatically opens a dialog box named **Share** **Project targets**.**docx**.

4. In the upper text box, type **MOD Administrator**.

5. Ensure that the text **Anyone with this link can edit this item** is show, add a short message in the message text box below, and then Select **Share**.

6. Open a new InPrivate Microsoft Edge window, and then connect to **https://portal.office.com**. 

7. Sign in as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

8. In the Microsoft 365  portal, Select **Mail**.

9. Select the message with the subject **Beth Burke has shared Project Targets**. 

10. In the message box, Select **Project Targets**. 

11. When the document opens, Select **Edit in Browser**. Verify that you can open the document and edit it. All modifications are stored online in the OneDrive for Business cloud storage. By default, SharePoint Online creates a new version when the document changes. This can be viewed by the owner in the version history. 

12. Close the InPrivate Microsoft Edge window. 

13. In the Microsoft Edge window, Select the **Shared** button of **Project targets** in Sharing column. 

14. In the menu on the right Select **Stop sharing** and then Select **Stop sharing** again.

15. Close the Microsoft Edge window.

 


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft OneDrive for A. Datum.


  
‎ 

### Exercise 3: Configuring Microsoft 365  groups

## Task 1: Configure a private Microsoft 365  group

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in to **http://portal.office.com** as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

2. Open the Microsoft 365  admin center through the app launcher by Selecting the **Admin** icon.

3. Select **Groups** in the left navigation pane, Select **Groups**, and then Select **Add a group**.

4. In the **Add a group** window, verify that **Microsoft 365  group** is selected in the **Type** drop-down list.

5. In the **Add a group** window, configure the following settings:

- Name: **AdatumMarketing**

- E-Mail: **Adatummarketing@ M365xYY****XXXX****.hostdomain.com**

- Description: **Adatum Marketing Group** 

- Under **Privacy**, select **Private – Only members can see group content**.

- Set the language to **English (United Kingdom)**

- Group owner: **MOD Administrator**

6. Select **Add**.

7. Select **Close**.

8. Select on **AdatumMarketing**, and in the **Details** window, in the **Members** section, Select **Edit**.

9. Select **Add members**, and then Select **Beth Burke**.

10. Select **Save**, and then Select **Close**.

## Task 2: Configure a public Microsoft 365  group with Windows PowerShell

1. On **LON-CL1**, double-Select **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** on the desktop.

2. Type the following command, and then press Enter: 

This command stores administravie credentials as a macro.

		$cred = Get-Credential


3. In the Windows PowerShell credential request window, sign in as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

4. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

this creates a session with exchange.

		$session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection


5. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

This command imports the session to the powershell console.

		Import-PSSession $Session –AllowClobber


6. To create a new public Microsoft 365  group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

This command creates a Unified group called Planning group.

		New-UnifiedGroup –DisplayName "Planning Group" -Alias "PlanningGroup" –EmailAddresses PlanningGroup@M365xYYXXXX.hostdomain.com


7. To add a user to the owners group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

This command creates links for the planning group with the owner set as the admin.

		Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" –Links Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com –LinkType Owner


8. To add a user to the members group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

This command creates links for the planning group with the owner set as the Ada.

		Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" –Links Ada@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com –LinkType Member


## Task 3: Explore the Microsoft 365  group components

1. On **LON-CL1**, open **Microsoft Edge**, and then sign in to **https://portal.office.com** as **Admin@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** 

2. Select the app launcher in the upper-left corner.

3. Select **Mail**.

4. On the left pane, Select **Planning Group**, and then Select **Start a conversation**. If pop-up window is blocked, Select **Always allow**.

5. In the message window, type **MOD Administrator** in the **To** line, type a subject and some content, and then Select **Send**.

6. Select **Calendar** on the toolbar, and then view the group calendar.

7. Select **New**. In the **Details** pane, fill out the data for the meeting, type **Planning meeting** for the subject, schedule it for tomorrow, and then Select **Save**.

8. Ensure that the calendar item synchronizes with Admin’s personal calendar. 

9. Select the **Office365 apps** icon, and then Select **Mail**.

10. In the navigation pane, select **Planning Group**.

11. Select **Files** on the toolbar, and then wait for the files store to be created. It should take few minutes.

12. Select **New**, and then Select **New** **Word document**. 

13. Type some text, and when you see **Saved** in the title bar, close the Microsoft Edge tab.

14. In the **Mail** window, Select **Files**, and then verify that the document has been added to the group.

15. On **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to **https://portal.office.com** as **Beth@M365xyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**. Select **English (United States)** for language and select your time zone and Select **Save**.

16. Select **Mail**. Verify that the **AdatumMarketing** group appears in your **Groups** list.

17. Under Groups, Select **Browse** or **Discover**.

18. Select **Planning Group**, and then Select **Join**. Because this is a public group, you can join the group.

19. In the left navigation pane, Select **Planning Group**, and then Select **Conversations**. Verify that you see the message that Adminsent to the group.

20. Select **Files**, and then verify that you see the document that Admincreated.

21. Close Microsoft Edge.

22. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.

 


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft Microsoft 365  groups at A. Datum.
