

## Module 6: Planning and managing Exchange Online recipients and permissions

Lab: Managing Exchange Online recipients and permissions

### Exercise 1: Configuring Exchange Online recipients

In this exercise 

### Task 1 – Manage Recipients

Now that Adatum’s tenant account is set up, you are ready to review how to create and manage mail flow recipients.

1. If necessary, you should log into your Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1) as **ADATUM\Administrator** and password **Pa55w.rd.**

2. At the end of the previous lab, you were instructed to close Internet Explorer. If you did, then open it now and maximize the browser window; otherwise, close all but one of the open tabs, which you’ll use in the next step to navigate to the Microsoft Office Home page.

3. In your browser go to the **Microsoft Office Home** page by entering the following URL in the address bar: **https://portal.office.com/** 

4. In the **Pick an account** window, select **Holly@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is your tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider).

5. In the **Enter password** dialog box, enter **Pa55w.rd** and then select **Sign in**.

6. In the **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **Admin**, which opens the Microsoft 365 admin center.

7. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Show all**, then scroll down and under **Admin centers,** select **Exchange**. This will open the **Exchange admin center.**

8. In the **Exchange admin center,** select **recipients** in the left-hand navigation pane.

9. In the list of user mailboxes, you should see all the user accounts that were pre-created in the lab environment for Adatum Corporation. Select **Joni Sherman** by double clicking on her **DISPLAY NAME.** This will open the **Edit User Mailbox** window with Joni’s data prefilled. By default, the window displays the **general** tab (the tabs appear in the left-hand pane).

10.  At the bottom of the **general** tab, select **More options**.

11. Under **Custom attributes**, select the **pencil (edit)** icon. 

12. This opens the **Custom attributes** window for Joni. You can enter up to 15 attributes. You will not be entering any attributes in this lab exercise, but it’s important that you know this feature is available. Select **Cancel**.   <br/>

	‎**Note:** Custom attributes are properties your company can use for specific mailbox identification, such as a cost center number for the mailbox or other information such as an HR personnel number.

13. In addition to the **genera**l tab, the left-hand pane of the **Edit User Mailbox** window includes several other tabs that enable you to enter additional information pertaining to this specific mailbox. While you will not enter any of this optional information for the purposes of this lab, you should still select the following tabs to see what information can be captured: 

	- **contact information.** This tab enables you to add personal information such as Street, City or Mobile number for the user.

	- **organization.** This tab enables you to add company-specific information such as Title or Department for the user.

	- **mailbox features.** This tab enables the admin to assign specific policies to the user. These policies range from the sharing policy to the address book policy. This option also covers device usage and connectivity.

	- **MailTip.** This tab enables you to create a MailTip that’s displayed when people send email to this user. 

14. On the left-hand pane select **mailbox delegation.** This option allows the admin to assign a user to this mailbox’s Send As, Send on Behalf, or Full Access permissions. This option is commonly used if you want another user to be able to send messages from this mailbox.

15. Scroll down on this **mailbox delegation** window and select the plus (+) sign next in the **Full Access** section. 

16. In the **Select Full Access** window select the **MOD Administrator** account, select **add-&gt;**, and then select **OK.**  <br/>

	‎**Note:** After about an hour the MOD Administrator account will be able to access Joni’s mailbox without needing a password.

17. On the **Edit User Mailbox** window select **Save** to authorize the changes and close the window.

 
### Task 2 – Manage Groups 

In this task you will create two types of groups within Exchange Online. The first is a distribution list of email recipients, which is used to create a one-stop email list for contacting users simultaneously rather than having to email each recipient individually. The second type of group is an Office 365 group.

1. In the **Exchange admin center (EAC)**, you should still be displaying **recipients** from the left-hand navigation pane. In the prior task, you worked with user accounts using the **mailboxes** tab. In this task, you will be creating groups, so select the **groups** tab at the top of the **recipients**’ page.  <br/>

	**Note:** You should already see the Inside Sales group that you created in Lab 1. This is an Office 365 group whose email address is associated with the custom, on-premises domain (@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com). In the following steps, you will create a Distribution list group and an Office 365 group whose email addresses will be in Microsoft 365 (@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com). 

2.	Select the drop-down arrow next to the **New Office 365 group** button. In the drop-down menu, select **Distribution list**.

3. In the **new distribution list** window that appears, enter the following information:

	- Display Name: **Sales Department**

	- Alias: **SalesDept**

	- Email Address: tab into the field and the **SalesDept** alias will appear. In the domain field to the right of it, select the drop-down arrow and select **M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider)

	- Owners: Since you are logged into the EAC using Holly Dickson, her account is displayed as the default Owner. However, Holly wants the MOD Administrator to be the owner of the group, so select the **plus (+)** sign, and in the **Select Owner** window, select **MOD Administrator**, select the **add-&gt;** button, and then select **OK**.

	- Members: select the plus (+) sign, and in the **Select Members** window, hold down the **Ctrl** key and select **Alan Yoo, Libby Hayward,** and **Adam Hobbs.** This will select all three users at once; then select the **add-&gt;** button and select **OK.** 

4. Select **Save.**

5. Select the **New Office 365 group** button. 

6. In the **create a group** window that appears, enter the following information:

	- Group name: **Dynamics CRM Project Team**

	- Group email address: **DynCRM**

	- Group email address domain: In the domain field to the right of the **DynCRM** alias, select the drop-down arrow and select **M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider)

	- Privacy: **Public – Anyone can see content**

	- Owners: Leave this as is.

	- Language: select the language for the group

	- Description: **This is a group of all company employees working on the Microsoft Dynamics CRM implementation project.**

	- Language: select the language for the group

7. Select **Save**. This will open the Dynamics CRM Project Team window.

8. In the **Dynamics CRM Project Team** window, the **ownership** tab in the left-hand pane is displayed by default. Under **Owners**, select the **plus (+)** sign, and in the **Select Members** window, select **MOD Administrator**, select the **add-&gt;** button, and then select **OK**.

9. In the left-hand pane, select **membership**.

10. Under **Members**, select the **plus (+)** sign, and in the **Select Members** window, hold down the **Ctrl** key and select **Ada Russell**, **Adam Hobbs**, **Laura Atkins**, and **Libby Hayward**. Since this process will select all four users, select the **add-&gt;** button and then select **OK.** 

11. Select **Save**.


#### Task 3 – Manage Resources

A room mailbox is a resource mailbox that's assigned to a physical location, such as a conference room, an auditorium, or a training room. With room mailboxes, users can easily reserve these rooms by including room mailboxes in their meeting requests. Adatum’s CTO wants to test out this option using the company’s most popular conference room, and he has asked you to configure this resource.

1. In the **Exchange admin center**, you should still be displaying **recipients** from the left-hand navigation pane. In this list of recipient tabs across the top of the screen, select **resources.**

2. In the menu bar that appears over the list of resources, select the **plus (+)** sign and then in the drop-down menu, select **Room mailbox.**  <br/>
	
	‎**Note:** This selection is designed for administrators to set up a meeting location to be used for booking purposes. When scheduling meetings, you will be able to select the room from the GAL.

3. In the **new room mailbox** window that appears, enter the following information:

	- Room name: **Conference Room 1**

	- Email address: **Con1**

	- Email address domain: In the domain field to the right of the **Con1** alias, select the drop-down arrow and select **M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider)

	- Location: The room is in Building 5, Room 2011, so enter **5/2011**

	- Phone: **425-555-1111**

	- Capacity: **15**

4. Select **Save**.

5. Conference Room 1 now appears in the list of resources. Select **Conference Room 1**, and then select the **Edit** (pencil) icon on the menu bar.

6. In the **Conference Room 1** window that appears, select **booking options** in the left-hand pane.

7. Select the **Allow Scheduling only during working Hours** check box. 

8. In the **Maximum booking lead time (days)** field, change the value from **180** days to **60** days.  <br/>

	‎**Note:** The standard duration of 180 days can be too long for scheduling out most meetings. As a best practice, organizations should establish a company standard so events do not over-book locations.

9. In the **Maximum duration (hours)** field, change the value from **24** hours to **120** hours (this is five days, or one work week).   

10. In the left-hand navigation pane, select **booking delegates**.

11. Select the **Select delegates who can accept or decline booking requests** option.  <br/>

	**Note:** This option allows a user to filter booking requests.

12. Under **Delegates**, select the **plus (+)** sign. In the **Select Delegates** window hold down the **Ctrl** key and select Holly Dickson and the MOD Administrator. This will select both users at once; then select the **add-&gt;** button and select **OK.** 

13. Select **Save**.


### Task 4 – Manage Contacts

One of the key features of Exchange Online is the ability to maintain different types of contacts in the Exchange Admin Center. In this task, you will be introduced to mail contacts and mail users.

1. In the **Exchange admin center**, you should still be displaying **recipients** from the left-hand navigation pane. In this list of recipient tabs across the top of the screen, select **contacts.**

2. In the menu bar that appears over the list of contacts, select the **plus (+)** sign, and in the menu that appears, select **Mail contact.**  <br/>

	‎**Note:** This option enables external people from outside your organization to be added to your Exchange Online distribution lists.

3. In the **new mail contact** window that appears, enter the following information.

	- First name: **Hai**

	- Initials: leave blank

	- Last Name: **Chu**

	- Display Name: tab into the field and **Hai Chu** is automatically displayed

	- Alias: **Hai**

	- External Email Address: **Hai@fabrikam.com**

4. Select **Save**. Hai should now appear in the list of contacts as a Mail Contact.

5. On the menu bar above the contacts list, select the **plus** **(+)** sign to add another contact. In the drop-down menu, select **Mail user.**  <br/>

	**Note:** This option is for individuals who need to use the company domain even though they are not a full-time employee (for example: contractors, advisors, and selective temporary staff). This option will forward email to the individual’s external email when mail is sent to the contact’s internal company account.  <br/>
	
	‎**WARNING**: A Mail User does not need a license to access SharePoint Online; the user simply needs to be given access to it.   
	
6. In the **new mail user** window that appears, enter the following information:

	- First name: **Bill**

	- Initials: leave blank

	- Last Name: **Norman**

	- Display Name: tab into the field and **Bill Norman** is automatically displayed

	- Alias: **Bill**

	- External email address: **Bill@fabrikam.com**

	- User ID: **Bill** (this is the user’s alias for his internal Adatum account)

	- User ID domain: in the domain field to the right of the User ID, select the drop-down arrow and select **M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (where ZZZZZZ is your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider)

	- New password: **Pa55w.rd**

	- Confirm Password: **Pa55w.rd**

7. Select **Save**. Bill should now appear in the list of contacts as a Mail User.


## Task 5: Create a new admin role and assign a user to it

In this task you will be configuring roles via powershell. this is useful when you want to limit the ammount of control you want to give a temporary administrator.

1. If necessary, you should log into PC Client 1 VM (LON-CL1) as **ADATUM\Administrator** and password **Pa55w.rd.**. Then access the **Windows Powershell** command GUI by selecting the **Searchbar** then typing **powershell**. Then right select **powershell** and select **run as Admnistrator**.

 **Note:** 

If possible, use the paste functionality provided by the hosting server to copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine. 

2. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command: 

This command sets the execution policy to remote signed.

		Set-ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned

3. Once this is done you will prompted to confirm the command. Type **"A"** to accept all or you can Type **"Y"** to accept individual executions.

This command installs the Exchange Online Management Module to powershell.

		Install-Module -Name ExchangeOnlineManagement

4. Once this is done you will prompted to confirm the command. Type **"A"** to accept all or you can Type **"Y"** to accept individual executions.

This Command stores the Credential information. 


		$UserCredential = Get-Credential

5.Enter in the Microsoft 365 Mod Administrator credentials. (Admin@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com PW:provided by your host) 

This command connects you to Exchange online and signs in automatically with your stored credentials.

		Connect-ExchangeOnline -Credential $UserCredential -ShowProgress $true

6.Type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:
		
This command is specific to this task, normally running the commands below would give you an unauthorized access error. this command enables you to run them. Note: this command is only for online use.		
		
		Enable-OrganizationCustomization

This command creates a new group called **Branch office admins**, with the specific roles “Mail Recipients”, “Distribution Groups”, “Move Mailboxes”, “Mail Recipient Creation” assigned to it.

		New-RoleGroup -Name BranchOfficeAdmins -roles “Mail Recipients”, “Distribution Groups”, “Move Mailboxes”, “Mail Recipient Creation”


7. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

This command addes Holly Dickson to the Branch Office Admins role group.
		
		Add-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins" -Member 'Holly Dickson'


8. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

This command retrieves all members associated to Branch office Admins.

		Get-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins"


9. If the Edge browser isn't alreay open go to **Admin.microsoft.com** and sign in with the **MOD Administrator credentials**.

10. From the **Microsoft 365 Admin center**. On the left hand tool bar select **Show all**.

11. Scroll down under **Admin Centers** then select **Exchange**. A new tab will open on the Edge browser and will direct you to the Exchange admin center (EAC).

12.From the **Exchange admin center** Select **permissions**.On the center tool bar ribbon locate **Admin roles** and select it. In the **Admin roles** menu there wil be the Admin role called **Branch office admins**, select it.

13. The right hand side of the select Admin role **Branch office Admin** will show all the roles assigned to the role group and by scrolling to the bottom **Holly Dickson** should be a member.

## Task 3: Create a new role assignment policy

1. From PC Client 1 VM (LON-CL1) continue using  Microsoft Edge from the previous task, in the Exchange Admin center, Select **user roles**. then minimize then **Windows Edge Browser**.

2. From desktop in PC Client 1 VM (LON-CL1) Switch to **Windows PowerShell**. **Note:** your session should be still open from the previous task. if not refer to steps 3-6 from the previous task.

 **Note:** If possible, use the paste functionality provided by the hosting server to copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.. 

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

This command will create a new roll policy name limited Mailbox Configuration with the associated roles: MyBaseOptions,MyAddressInformation,MyDisplayName
		
		New-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -Roles MyBaseOptions,MyAddressInformation,MyDisplayName


4. To change the default role assignment policy for new mailboxes, in the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command, and then press Enter: 

This command will switch the default Role assignment policy to the new policy **"Limitied Mailbox Configurations"** as the default policy.
		Set-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -IsDefault


5. When prompted, type **Y**, and then press Enter. Then minimize the **Windows Powershell** console.

6. Select the **Windows Edge browser from your taskbar located at the bottom of the PC Client 1 VM (LON-CL1), then select the **Exchange admin center** tab, Select **Refresh**. You can see the new role assignment policy.

## Task 4: Prepare for the next module

- When you have finished the lab, leave all of the virtual machines running.

 


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured delegated administration of your Exchange Online organization.
