

## Module 4: Planning and configuring directory synchronization

Lab: Configuring directory synchronization

### Exercise 1: Preparing for directory synchronization

## Task 1: Configure UPN

In Active Directory, the default User Principal Name (UPN) suffix is the DNS name of the domain where the user account was created. The Azure AD Connect wizard uses the UserPrincipalName attribute, or it lets you specify the on-premises attribute (in a custom installation) to be used as the user principal name in Azure AD. This is the value that is used for signing into Azure AD. In this task, you will use PowerShell to change the user principal name of the domain for the entire Adatum Corporation.

1. On your Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1), make sure you’re logged in as **ADATUM\Administrator** and password **Pa55w.rd**. 

2. You must now open **Windows PowerShell**. Select the magnifying glass (**Search**) icon on the taskbar at the bottom of the screen and type **powershell** in the Search box that appears. 

3. In the menu that appears, right-click on **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as administrator** in the drop-down menu. 

4. Using **Windows PowerShell**, you must replace the on-premises **adatum.com** domain with the **XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** domain (where XXYYZZ is your unique UPN name provided by your lab hosting provider). In doing so, you will update the UPN suffix for the primary domain and the UPN on every user in AD DS with **@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com**. <br/> 

	‎In the following command, the **Set-ADForest** cmdlet modifies the properties of an Active Directory forest, and the **-identity** parameter specifies the Active Directory forest to modify. To perform this task, run the following command to set the **UPNSuffixes** property for the **adatum.com** forest (remember to change XXYYZZ to your unique UPN name):<br/>
	
	‎**Set-ADForest -identity adatum.com -UPNSuffixes @{replace="XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com"}**

5. You must then run the following command that changes all existing adatum.com accounts to the new UPN @XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com domain. As you type the following command, remember to change XXYYZZ to your unique UPN name: <br/>

	‎**Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | ForEach-Object { Set-ADUser \$_  -UserPrincipalName (\$_.SamAccountName + "@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com" )}**

6. You will continue using PowerShell on your Domain Controller VM in the next task.




## Task 2: Prepare problem user accounts

Integrating your on-premises Active Directory with Azure AD makes your users more productive by providing a common identity for accessing both cloud and on-premises resources. However, errors can occur when identity data is synchronized from Windows Server Active Directory (AD DS) to Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). 

For example, two or more objects may have the same value for the **ProxyAddresses** attribute or the **userPrincipalName** attribute in on-premises Active Directory. There are a multitude of different conditions that may result in synchronization errors. Organizations can correct these errors by running the IdFix tool, which performs discovery and remediation of identity objects and their attributes in an on-premises Active Directory environment in preparation for migration to Azure Active Directory. 

In this task, you will run a script that breaks various Adatum user accounts. As part of your Adatum pilot project, you are purposely breaking these identity objects so that you can later run the IdFix tool to see how it will fix them. You will run IdFix in the next task.

1. On your Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1), in the Windows PowerShell window, run the following command to change the root source to **C:\labfiles** so that you can access any files from that location: <br/>

	‎<strong>CD C:\labfiles\ </strong>

2. PowerShell's execution policy settings dictate what PowerShell scripts can be run on a Windows system. Setting this policy to Unrestricted enables Holly to load all configuration files and run all scripts. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:   <br/>

	‎**Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted**

3. A window appears asking you to confirm the execution policy change. Type **A** to select the **[A] Yes to All** option.

4. Enter the following command that runs a PowerShell script (stored in the C:\labfiles folder) that creates problem users. These users will purposely have issues with their user account so that you can troubleshoot them in the next task with the IdFix tool.  <br/>

	‎<strong>.\CreateProblemUsers.ps1 </strong> <br/>
	
	**Note:** Wait until the script has completed before proceeding to the next task. This Windows PowerShell script will make the following changes in AD DS:

	- **Klemen Sic**. Update the UserPrincipalName for Klemen to include an extra "@" character. 

	- **Lara Raisic**. Update the emailAddress attribute for Lara to **lara@adatum.com**. 

	- **Logan Boyle**. Update the emailAddress attribute for Logan to **logan@adatum.com**.

	- **Holly Spencer**. Update the emailAddress attribute for Holly to **holly @adatum.com**; Note: this includes a blank space between “holly” and “@adatum.com”. This blank space is there on purpose, so make sure you include it.

	- **Maj Hojski**. Update the emailAddress attribute for Maj to blank characters (“ “).  

5. Close PowerShell.


### Task 3: Run the IdFix tool and fix identified issues 

In this task you will download and use the IdFix tool to fix the accounts that were broken in the previous task. Running the IdFix tool will correct any user account errors prior to synchronizing identity data between your on-premises environment and Azure AD 

1. Switch to the Client 1 VM (LON-CL1) and log in as **adatum\administrator**. The desktop will display the login screen for Adam Hobbs, who was the last user to previously user the Client 1 VM. On the Desktop, select **Other user**, and then enter **adatum\administrator** as the **User name** and **Pa55w.rd** as the **Password.**

2. Open **Microsoft Edge** and then enter the following URL in the address bar to access the Microsoft Download Center page for the IdFix Directory Synchronization Error Remediation Tool: <br/>

	<strong>https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832 </strong>

3. Scroll down on the **Download Center** page for **the IdFix Directory Synchronization Error Remediation Tool** and select the **Download** button. 

4. In the notification bar that appears at the bottom of the page, select **Save**.

5. Wait for the download to complete, and then in the notification bar, select **Open**. 

6. In the **File Explorer** window that appears, it should already be displaying the **Downloads** folder (if not, select the Downloads folder). Right-click **IdFix.zip**, select **Open**, and then if a **Compressed (zipped) folders** dialog box, select **Extract All...**  <br/>

	‎**Note:** When you select **Open**, the **Compressed (zipped) folder** dialog box may not appear; instead, it may automatically extract all files and take you to the next step. 

7. In the **Select a Destination and Extract Files** dialog box, in the **Files will be extracted to this folder** field, type **C:\Deployment Tools\IdFix**, and then select **Extract**. 

8. In **File Explorer**, it should already be displaying the **C:\Deployment Tools\IdFix** folder. Right-click **IdFix.exe**, and then select **Run as administrator**. 

9. In the **IdFix Privacy Statement** message box, select **OK**. 

10. In the **IdFix** window, on the menu bar, select **Query**. After a short wait, you should see several errors. 

11. Select the **ERROR** column to sort the character errors to the top of the list.   <br/>

	‎**Note:** If **topleveldomain** errors appear, then ignore them as they cannot be fixed by the IdFix tool.  

12. In the **Holly Spencer** row, select the drop-down arrow in the **ACTION** field and select **EDIT**. 

13. In the **Maj Hojski** row, select the drop-down arrow in the **ACTION** field and select **EDIT**. 

14. In the **Klemen Sic** row, select the drop-down arrow in the **ACTION** field and select **EDIT**. 

15. On the toolbar at the top of the window, select **Apply**. 

16. In the **Apply Pending** dialog box, select **Yes**; note the **COMPLETE** status in the **ACTION** column indicating successful writes. <br/>

	‎**Note:** Notice that IdFix updated the three user objects and corrected the errors. 

17. Switch to **File Explorer**, and in the **C:\Deployment Tools\IdFix** folder, double-click **Verbose {date} {time}.txt** to open Notepad and view the updated transactions in the transaction log. Note the three Updates that appear at the bottom of the file that reflect the updates you just initiated. When you’re done, close Notepad. 

18. Switch back to the **IdFix tool**. On the toolbar, select **Query**. 

19. Find the **Logan Boyle** row, and then click in the **UPDATE** column for Logan. In this case, a duplicate UPN was detected. You can replace the string in the **UPDATE** column with the correct value. Enter **logan@adatum.com**, and then select the drop-down arrow in the **ACTION** field and select **EDIT**. 

20. Find the **Maj Hoski** row, and then click in the **UPDATE** column for Maj. In this case, the UPN is incorrect. You can replace the string in the **UPDATE** column with the correct value. Enter **maj@adatum.com**, and then select the drop-down arrow in the **ACTION** field and select **EDIT**. 

21. On the toolbar at the top of the window, select **Apply**. 

22. In the **Apply Pending** box, select **Yes**.  <br/>

	‎**Note:** This will update the two user objects and correct their UPN. 

23. On the toolbar, select **Query** and verify the errors are corrected (the users will no longer appear on the screen). As you can see, there are two users whose errors you did not fix (**Ngoc Bich Tran** and **An Dung Dao**). We are purposely leaving these errors alone so that you can see what happens during the synchronization process using the Azure AD Connect tool in Task 5 when it processes users with these conditions. <br/>

	**Note:** Where there are format and duplicate errors for distinguished names, the **UPDATE** column either contains the same string as the **VALUE** column, or the **UPDATE** column entry is blank. In either case, this means that IdFix cannot suggest a remediation for the error. You can either fix these errors outside IdFix, or manually remediate them within IdFix. You can also export the results and use Windows PowerShell to remediate many errors.  

24. Close the open File Explorer windows. 
## Task 4: Prepare for Directory Synchronization    

The Azure Active Directory Connect synchronization services (Azure AD Connect sync) is a main component of Azure AD Connect. It takes care of all the operations that are related to synchronizing identity data between your on-premises environment and Azure AD. The sync service consists of two components, the on-premises Azure AD Connect sync component and the cloud service component in Azure AD called Azure AD Connect sync service.

Before you can run Azure AD Connect, you must first configure several settings that control the synchronization process. Once you have completed the preparation process, you will then run the Azure AD Connect tool in the next task. 

1. Switch to you Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1). If you’re not already logged on as **ADATUM\Administrator** and password **Pa55w.rd**, then please do so now.

2. In your **Internet Explorer** browser, select the **gear (Tools) icon** in the upper-right corner of the screen, then in the drop-down menu select **Internet options**, and then in the **Internet Options** window, select the **Security** tab. 

3. The **Internet** zone should be selected by default. Towards the bottom of the window, select **Custom Level**. 

4. In the **Security Settings – Internet Zone** window, scroll down to the **Downloads** section. The first option in this section is **File download**. Verify the **File download** option is set to **Enable** and then select **OK**. 

5. This takes you back to the **Internet Options** window. Select the **Trusted sites** zone.

6. In the **Trusted Sites** zone, you must add several sites. Select the **Sites** button. 

7. In the **Trusted sites** window, in the **Add this website to the zone** field, enter the following URL and then select **Add**: **https://outlook.office365.com/** 

8. Repeat step 7 to add the following site: **https://outlook.office.com/**  

9. Repeat step 7 to add the following site: **https://portal.office.com/**  

10. Select **Close** once you have added these three sites.

11. In the **Internet Options** window, select **OK** to close the window.

12. Enter the following URL in the address bar to open the **Microsoft Office Home** page: **https://portal.office.com/** 

13. If you’re signed in as Holly Dickson (the circle in the upper-right corner displays **HD**), then proceed to the next step; otherwise, sign in as **Holly@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd** (where ZZZZZZ is your unique tenant ID provided by your lab hosting provider). 

14. In the **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **Admin**. 

15. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Users**, and then select **Active** **Users**.  

16. In the **Active users** list, select **Holly Dickson**. 

17. In Holly Dickson’s account page, under the **Username/E-mail** section, select **Manage username**.

18. In the **Manage username** window, select the drop-down arrow in the **domain** field and then select the **XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** domain (where XXYYZZ is your unique UPN Name provided by your lab hosting provider).   <br/>

	‎**Important:** This step will break Holly’s account. You are purposely doing this to introduce a common problem that many organizations face today – they will correctly create the same UPN’s for a user’s on-premises and cloud accounts, but they accidentally (and incorrectly) point each account to a different domain.   <br/>
	
	‎As a result of creating this domain mismatch, the synchronization process will create two accounts for this user in the Microsoft 365 Active User list instead of just one account. In addition, each account will have its own mailbox because the mailboxes will have different domain and routing addresses. In a normal situation in which the user’s on-premises and cloud accounts have the same UPN and domain, the synchronization process will create one user account in the Microsoft 365 Active User list that has multiple SMTP addresses in the email address property chain.

19. Read the warning that appears at the top of the window and then select **Save changes**. 

20. You should be signed out automatically. 

21. In the **Pick an account** window, you want to log in using Holly’s **Holly@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** account. Note that her **Holly@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** account appears in the list, but not her **Holly@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** account. Therefore, select **Use another account.** 

22. In the **Sign in** window, enter **Holly@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** (where XXYYZZ is your unique UPN Name provided by your lab hosting provider) and then select **Next**. 

23. In the **Enter password** window, enter **Pa55w.rd** and then select Sign in.

24. In the **Stay signed in?** window, select **Yes**.

25. Close Internet Explorer, then select the **Internet Explorer icon** on the taskbar to open it again. 

26. Proceed to the next task. You are now ready to install the Azure AD Connect tool. 
‎ 

### Exercise 2: Configuring directory synchronization

## Task 1: Download and install Azure AD Connect

1In this task, you will run the Azure AD Connect setup wizard to enable synchronization between Adatum’s on-premises Active Directory and Azure Active Directory. Once the configuration is complete, the synchronization process will automatically start. 

‎This task resumes from the prior task, where you logged into the Domain Controller VM as **Holly@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** and you closed and then reopened Internet Explorer.

1. In **Internet Explorer**, select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab. 

2. In the **Active users** window, select the **ellipsis** icon (to the right of **Add a user**), and then in the drop-down menu, select **Directory synchronization**. 

3. In the **Active Directory preparation** window, select **Download Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect tool**. This takes you to the Microsoft Download Center.

4. In the **Microsoft Download Center** page, scroll down to the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** section and select **Download**. 

5. In the notification bar that appears at the bottom of the page, select **Save**.

6. Once the download is complete, in the notification bar at the bottom of the page, select **Run**.

7. This initiates the installation of the Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect Tool. If the **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** window does not appear on the desktop, find the icon for it in the taskbar and select it. On the Welcome to Azure AD Connect window in the setup wizard, select the **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice** option and then select **Continue**.

8. On the **Express Settings** page, read the instruction regarding a single Windows Server AD forest and then select **Use express settings**.

9. On the **Connect to Azure AD** window, enter **Holly@XXYYZZa.hostdomain.com** (where XXYYZZ is your unique UPN Name provided by your lab hosting provider) in the **USERNAME** field, enter **Pa55w.rd** in the **PASSWORD** field, and then select **Next.** 

10. On the **Connect to AD DS** page, enter **adatum\Administrator** in the **USERNAME** field, enter **Pa55w.rd** in the **PASSWORD** field, and then select **Next.**

11. In the **Azure AD sign-in configuration** window, select the **Continue without matching all UPN suffixes to verified domains** option, and then select **Next**.

12. On the **Ready to configure** screen, select the check box for **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes** if it’s not already selected, and then select **Install**.   <br/>

	‎**Note:** In a real-world deployment, if you’re also preparing Azure AD Connect for an Exchange hybrid deployment, you would select the **Exchange hybrid deployment** option as well. In this lab, you will leave this option blank.

13. Wait for the installation to complete and then select **Exit**. 

14. In the taskbar at the bottom of the VM, select the **magnifying glass (Search)** icon, and then in the Search box, enter **Synchronization**. In the menu, select the **Synchronization Service** desktop application to open it.

15. In the **Synchronization Service Desktop Manager** window, the Operations tab is displayed by default so that you can monitor the synchronization process.   <br/>

	‎**Note:** Because a synchronization had not been performed prior to this, the initial synchronization is a **Full Synchronization** (see the **Profile Name** column). Because the synchronization process will continue to run automatically every 30 minutes (the default syn interval for Azure AD Connect is set to 30 minutes during installation), any subsequent synchronizations will display Delta Synchronization in the Profile Name. If you leave the Synchronization Service Manager window open, after 30 minutes you will see that it attempts to synchronize the two users who were not synchronized during the initial synchronization. 

16. Wait for the **Export** profile to complete for **M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** (with a **Status** of **completed-export-errors**). Select this row.  

17. In the bottom portion of the screen, note the number of users that were added and the number that were updated. Also note the two errors that appear in the **Export Errors** section. If you recall back in Task 3 when you ran the IdFix tool, there were two users with validation errors that you purposely did not fix (**Ngoc Bich Tran** and **An Dung Dao**). If you select the links to each of the **Export Errors**, you’ll see that these are the two users that were not synchronized by the Azure AD Connect tool due to these data validation errors.   <br/>

	‎Also note that because a synchronization had not been performed prior to this, the initial synchronization is a **Full Synchronization** (see the **Profile Name** column). Because the synchronization process will continue to run automatically every 30 minutes, any subsequent synchronizations will display **Delta Synchronization** as its **Profile Name**. If you leave the Synchronization Service Manager window open, after 30 minutes you will see that it attempts to synchronize the two users who were not synchronized during the initial synchronization. These will display as a **Delta Synchronization**.

18. Now that you have seen Azure AD Connect complete a Full Synchronization, and rather than waiting for it to synchronize future updates, in the next task you will make some updates and manually force a synchronization. Leave the Domain Controller VM open as it will be used in the next exercise.


**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have installed Azure AD Connect with customized settings. Upon completion of the installation, you will start directory synchronization to Microsoft 365 and have verified that synchronization was successful.


### Exercise 3:  Implement Identity Synchronization 

Azure AD Connect will continue to synchronize any delta changes every 30 minutes. In this exercise you are going to make some user and group updates and then manually force an immediate synchronization rather than waiting for Azure AD Connect to automatically synchronize the updates. You will then verify whether the updates were synchronized.  

‎### Task 1: Create Group Accounts to Test Synchronization  

To test the manual, forced synchronization process, you will also set up several group scenarios to verify whether the forced synchronization function is working in Azure AD Connect. You will create two groups in Adatum’s on-premises environment – a security group and a distribution group (also known as a distribution list). 

Each group will be assigned several members. After the forced synchronization, you will validate that you can see the members for the security group but not the members of the distribution group. On-premises distribution groups are synced to Microsoft 365, but their members are not assigned as members in the group. Their individual user accounts are migrated, but not as members of distribution groups to which they are assigned.

1. Switch to the Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1). If necessary, log in as **adatum\administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**. 

2. If **Server Manager** is closed, then re-open it now. 

3. In **Server Manager**, select **Tools** at the top of the screen, and then in the drop-down menu select **Active Directory Users and Computers.**

4. You need to create a new group, which in this case will be a **Distribution group** (also known as a distribution list). In the console tree under **Adatum.com**, right-click **Research,** select **New,** and then select **Group**.  

5. In the **New Object - Group** window, enter the following information:

	- Group name: **Purchasing**

	- Group scope: **Universal**

	- Group type: **Distribution**

6. Select **OK**.  

7. In the **Research** OU, double-click the **Purchasing** group.  

8. In the **Purchasing Properties** window, in the **E-mail** box, type **Purchasing@adatum.com**.  

9. Select the **Members** tab, and then select the **Add** button.

10. In the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select**, type the following names (type all three at once with a semi-colon separating them), and then select **Check Names**:  

	- **Ashlee Pickett** 

	- **Juanita Cook** 

	- **Morgan Brooks**  

11. Select **OK** to return to the **Purchasing Properties window.**

12. In the **Purchasing Properties** window, select **OK** to return to the **Active Directory Users and Computers** window.

13. Now create a second group, although this one will be a **Security group**. Repeat steps 4-12 to create a group with the following properties:

	- Group name: **Manufacturing**

	- Group scope: **Universal**

	- Group type: **Security**

	- Email: **Manufacturing@adatum.com**

	- Group members:

		- **Bernardo Rutter**

		- **Charlie Miller**

		- **Dawn Williamson**  

‎14. Leave the **Active Directory Users and Computers** window open for the next task.  

 
### Task 2: Change Group Membership to Test Synchronization  

This task sets up another scenario for testing whether the sync process is working in Azure AD Connect. In this task you will change the members of a group to see if they are reflected in the cloud once the group is synced. 

1. This task continues from where the previous task left off in the Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1). In the **Active Directory Users and Computers** window, in the console tree under **Adatum.com**, double-click the **Research** group.  

2. In the **Research Properties** window, select the **Members** tab to view the members of this group.  

3. For each of the following users, select the user in the **Members** window, select the **Remove** button to remove it from the group, and confirm the removal by selecting **Yes**. Once finished, select **OK.**

	- **Cai Chu**  

	- **Shannon Booth**  

	- **Tia Zecirevic**  

4. Leave the Domain Controller VM open as you will continue using it in the next task. <br/>

	‎**Important:** You should perform the next task immediately after completing this one so that Azure AD Connect doesn’t automatically synchronize the changes that you just made to the identity objects in the previous tasks.


### Task 3: Force synchronization   

In this task, you will force a sync between Adatum’s on-premises AD and Azure AD instead of waiting 30 minutes for Azure AD Connect to synchronize the identity objects. You must use PowerShell to perform a forced synchronization.

1. On the Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1), if the **Windows PowerShell** application is still open from the prior exercise, you MUST close it now.  <br/>

	‎**Important:** The reason for this step is that if Windows PowerShell was opened BEFORE the Azure AD Connect setup, the cmdlet **Start-ADSyncSyncCycle** that is used in step 3 will not be available and you will receive an error indicating that the cmdlet is not recognized when you attempt to run it. Therefore, it’s recommended that at this step, you close Windows PowerShell if it’s open and then restart it.  

2. At this point, Windows PowerShell should NOT be open. To open it, select the **magnifying glass (Search)** icon in the taskbar, type **PowerShell** in the Search box, and then in the menu, right-click on **Windows PowerShell** and select **Run as administrator**.  

3. Run the following command to manually run a sync cycle between Adatum’s on-premises AD and Azure AD. The **Delta** switch is used here so that only the updates are synchronized.   <br/>

	‎**Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta** <br/>
	
	‎**Note:** If for any reason the Domain Controller VM was restarted after the original full synchronization run, the Microsoft Azure AD Sync service may not have restarted. If this occurred, you’ll receive an error when you try to perform the forced sync above. If this occurs, you’ll need to start the Microsoft Azure AD Sync service first and then perform the forced synchronization. 

4. Once the synchronization process has successfully completed, minimize your PowerShell window (do not close it) and proceed to the next task. You will use PowerShell in the next task to validate some of the results of the directory synchronization.
  

### Task 4: Validate the Results of Directory Synchronization   

In this task, you will validate whether the changes you made earlier were synchronized from Adatum’s on-premises AD to Azure AD. You will validate the changes using the Microsoft 365 admin center, and then you’ll perform the same validations using Windows PowerShell. This gives you experience in validating synchronization using both the Microsoft 365 admin center GUI and PowerShell.

1. You should still be on your Domain Controller VM (LON-DC1) after finishing the prior task. If you need to log back in, log in as **adatum\administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd.**

2. If **Internet Explorer** is still open and a tab exists for the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, then select that tab now and proceed to the next step. Otherwise, enter **https://portal.office.com/** in the address bar to open the **Microsoft Office Home** page, log in as **Holly@M365xZZZZZZ.onmicrosoft.com** and password **Pa55w.rd**, and then on the **Microsoft Office Home** page, select **Admin**. 

3. In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Users** and then **Active Users**. 

4. To validate the results of the synchronization, you need to see the **Sync Status** of each user. By default, this field is not displayed in the **Active users** list; therefore, you need to customize the **Active users** view to display this field.   <br/>

	‎Scroll to the far-right side of the window, and in the heading bar, select **Choose columns**. 

5. In the **Choose column** window, select the **Sync status** field and then select **Save.** 

6. In the **Active users** list, scroll to the right and verify the **Sync status** column appears. Hover your mouse over any of the **Sync status** icons to display the corresponding value.

7. Now let’s examine the synchronization results for the groups that you updated in Tasks 1.  <br/>

	‎In the **Microsoft 365 admin center**, in the left-hand navigation pane, select **Groups**, and then select **Groups** again.  

8. In the **Groups** list, verify that the **Purchasing** and **Manufacturing** groups appear. <br/>

	**Note:** You may need to wait up to 10 minutes before the two new groups appear. Continue to refresh the list until you see the groups.  

9. In the **Groups** list, locate the **Manufacturing** group. Scroll to the right and verify the value in the **Sync status** column. For this security group, hovering your mouse over the **Sync status** icon indicates that it was **Synced from on-premises**.

10. Select the **Manufacturing** group to open the **Manufacturing** group window. 

11. In the **Manufacturing** group window, note that it’s a mail-enabled security group that contains the three members that you assigned. Also note the message indicating that you can only manage this group in your on-premises environment using Active Directory users and groups (i.e. users and computers) or the Exchange admin center. 

12. In the **Manufacturing** group window, select the **Members** tab. Note that the group has no owner (the system did not automatically assign Holly Dickson as the group owner); this will be different from the Purchasing distribution group that you’ll validate next. Also note the three members that you assigned to it. Close the **Manufacturing** group window.

13. In the **Groups** list, select the **Purchasing** group. 

14. In the **Purchasing** group window, note that it’s a public group that contains only one member. Select the **Members** tab. Recall for the Manufacturing security group, no owner was assigned. For this distribution group, note that Holly Dickson was automatically assigned as the group owner, as well as being assigned as a group member. The reason for this is that while distribution groups are synchronized to Microsoft 365, their members are not. Therefore, the synchronization process automatically assigns the group owner as the only member of the distribution group that appears in the cloud.  

15. Now let’s examine these groups using Windows PowerShell. If **Windows PowerShell** is already open, then proceed to the next step; otherwise, type **Powershell** in the **Search** field on the taskbar and then right-click on the **Windows PowerShell** application and select **Run as administrator**. 

16. You should begin by running the following command that connects your PowerShell session to the Microsoft Online Service:  <br/>

	‎**Connect-MsolService**

17. In the **Sign in** dialog box, log in as **Holly@XXYYZZa.xtremelabs.us** (where XXYYZZ is your unique UPN Name provided by your lab hosting provider) and password of **Pa55w.rd**.   

20. Run the following command that retrieves all the Office 365 groups:   <br/>

	‎**Get-MsolGroup** 

21. In the list of groups that’s displayed, you should verify that you can see the **Research, Manufacturing,** and **Purchasing** groups. 

22. To verify that the group membership changes that you made in your on-premises Active Directory were synced to the **Research** group in Microsoft 365, select the **ObjectID** for the **Research** group in the prior list, right-click on it and select **Copy**.   <br/>

	‎Then run the following command to retrieve this group (where **{ObjectID}** is the ObjectID of the Research group; when you get to this point when entering the command, right-click and select **Paste** to paste in the ObjectID that you previously copied): <br/>
	
	‎**Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId {ObjectID}**

23. Verify the membership of the Research group does NOT contain the users who you earlier removed from the group in AD DS. The users who were removed from the group were:  

	- Cai Chu 

	- Shannon Booth  

	- Tai Zecirevic  

24. Run the following command to display the number of license units that have been consumed:  <br/>

	‎**Get-MsolAccountSku**  

25. Repeat steps 22-24 for the **Purchasing** distribution group. Note that it only lists Holly Dickson as the lone member of the group. This is because distribution group members are not synchronized in the cloud as part of the group; only the group owner is listed as a member of the group.

26. Repeat steps 22-24 for the **Manufacturing** security group. In the **Manufacturing** group, you added the following members, each of which you should see in the list of group members:  

	- Bernardo Rutter

	- Charlie Miller

	- Dawn Williamson

27. Once you have completed the validation steps, minimize your PowerShell window (do not close it) and proceed to the next task. You will use PowerShell in the next two tasks when troubleshooting the identity mismatch between Scotty Heyward’s two user accounts in Microsoft 365.
 




# End of Exercise 3
 