

## Module 8 lab: Teams Overview

In this exercise you will be learning how to manage and configure teams through the teams Administrative portal

 

### Task 1 – Manage Meeting Settings

 Meeting Policies

This task guides you through the many options for meeting policies.

 

	1. In Internet Explorer, sign in to Office 365 by navigating to https:\\portal.office.com and logging in with the O365 Credentials (username and password) that you retrieved in the prior task. 

	2. On the Stay signed in? page, click Yes to stay signed in. 

	3. Select Admin. 

	4.  On the left-hand side of the Admin page under Admin Centers. Select Teams

	5. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select meetings then select Meeting policies

	6. Select Global

	7. Under General review each option available. All options should be turn On

	8. Under Audio&amp;Video review each option and select Allow transcription as On

	9. Under Content Sharing review each option and select screen sharing mode and switch it to single application

	10. Under Participant &amp; Guests review each option and select allow dial-in users to bypass the lobby as On

	11. Select Save

Meeting Settings

This task guides you through the many options for meeting settings.

 

1. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select meetings then select Meeting Settings

2. Under email invitation enter the following information

	- Logo URL : [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/m365-get-modern-intro](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/m365-get-modern-intro)

	- Legal URL : [https://contoso.com/legal/html](https://contoso.com/legal/html)

	- Help URL : [https://contoso.com/joingingmeetinghelp.htm](https://contoso.com/joingingmeetinghelp.htm)

	- Footer : please accept at your earliest convince. THANK YOU!!!!

3. Under Network please review the current settings, if you had specific ports that your company used for sending and receiving media traffic this is were you would input your ports.

NOTE: if you do not have specific media ports prescribed by your networks administrator leave this section alone.

 

### Task 2 – Manage Messaging Policies

This task guides you through the many options for configuring message polices.

 

	1. In Internet Explorer, sign in to Office 365 by navigating to https:\\portal.office.com and logging in with the O365 Credentials (username and password) that you retrieved in the prior task. 

	2. On the Stay signed in? page, click Yes to stay signed in. 

	3. Select Admin. 

	4.  On the left-hand side of the Admin page under Admin Centers. Select Teams

	5. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select meetings then select Message policies

	6. Select the Add button

	7. Name the policy the New Secure Policy

	8. Select the following:

		- Owners can delete sent messages : off

		- Users can delete sent messages :off

		- User can edit sent messages : On

		- Read receipts : Turned on for everyone

		- Chat : on 

		- Using giphys in conversation :off

		- Giphy content rating :strict

		- Use memes in conversations : off

		- User stickers in conversations : off

		- Allow URL preview : on

		- Allow users to translate messages : on

		- Allow immersive reader for view messages : on

		- Send urgent Notifications : on

		- Voice message creation : allowed in chats and channels

		- On mobile devices, display favorite channels about recent chats : disabled.

		- Allow a user to remove users from a group chat : off

9. Click save 

 

### Task 3 – Manage Voice Settings

Create a Resource account

This task guides you through the many options for creating a Resource Account.

 

1. On the left-hand side of the Admin page under Admin Centers. Select Teams

2. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select Org-wide Settings then select Resource accounts

3. Select the Add button

4. Enter the following information:

	- Display name: Calling que 1

	- Username : Cq1@ Adatumyyxxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com

	- Resource account type: Call queue

5. Click Save

Create a Call Queue

This task guides you through the many options for creating a call queue.

 

	1. On the left-hand side of the Admin page under Admin Centers. Select Teams

	2. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select Voice then select Call queues

	3. Select the Add accounts 

	4. Select call [Cq1@Adatumyyxxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com](mailto:Cq1@adatumyyxxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com)

		- Leave greeting as no greeting

		- Music on hold leave a default

		- For call answering click the add call agents 

		- Enter Sales

		- For Routing method select Round Robin

		- In agents can opt out of taking calls : On

		- For Call overflow leave all settings as default

		- For Call time out handling leave all settings as default.

Create a Calling Policy 

This task guides you through the many options for creating a calling policy.

 

1. On the left-hand side of the Admin page under Admin Centers. Select Teams

2. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select Voice then select Calling Policies

3. Select Add 

4. Enter the following:

	- Name : default calling policy

	- Make private calls: on

	- Call forwarding and simultaneous ringing to people in our organization: off

	- Call forwarding and simultaneous ringing to people external to our organization: off

	- Voicemail is available for routing inbound calls: enabled

	- Inbound calls can be routed to a call groups: On

	- Allow delegation for inbound and outbound calls : off

	- Prevent toll bypass and send calls through the PSTN : On

	- Busy on busy is available when in a call: On

	- Select save 

	- Select close

 

### Task 4 – Manage Org-Wide Settings

This task will highlight various options under the Org-wide settings section in the Teams Admin center

 

External access

This task guides you through the many options for External access.

 

1. On the left-hand side of the Admin page under Admin Centers. Select Teams

2. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select External access then select Add Domain

(NOTE: this action will allow you to communicate with other users with specific domains.)

3. Type : Microsoft.com in the Domain text box.

4. Select Allowed 

5. Select done 

6. then select Add Domain

7. Type: SPAM.com in the domain text box

8. Select Blocked

9. Select done

10. Validate that Spam.com and Microsoft.com are represented in the list

11. Select Save

 

Guest access

This task guides you through the many options for Guest access.

 

1. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select Guest Access

2. There is a switch to allow guest access in Teams.

3. Select switch to the On position

4. Once On a variety of options will be available.

	- Calling

		- Make private calls : Off

- Meetings

	- Allow IP video: On

	- Screen sharing mode: entire screen

	- Allow meet now: On

- Messaging

	- Edit sent messages: Off

	- Delete sent Messages: Off

	- Chat: On

	- Use Giphys in Conversations: Off

	- Giphy Content rating: strict

	- Use memes in conversations: Off

	- User Stickers in conversations: Off

	- Allow immersive reader for viewing messages: On

 

Teams Settings

This task guides you through the many options for Teams Settings.

 

1. On the left-hand side on the Teams Admin page select Teams Settings

	- Email integration

		- Allow users to send emails to a channel email address: Off

		- Accept channel email from the SMTP Domains: Microsoft.com

- Files

	- ShareFile:On

	- DropBox:Off

	- Box:Off

	- Google Drive:Off

- Organization

	- Show organization tab in chats :On

- Devices

	- Require a secondary form of authentication to access meeting content: no access

	- Set content pin : required for outside scheduled meeting

	- Resource accounts cans send messages: On

- Search by name

	- Scope directory search using an exchange address book policy: On

2. Select Save

 
